Direct pressure applied on the inner ear cannot induce hearing loss.Three possible causes have been described in the literature for inner ear permanent lesions during scuba diving: pressure imbalance between the middle ear and the external ear, appearance of microbubbles in the internal ear, and direct effect of pressure on the inner ear. We seek to determine whether this last factor can be involved.We submitted two groups of guinea pigs previously implanted with an electrode in the round window to a protocol of air diving in a hyperbaric chamber. Eardrums of animals in one of the two groups had been perforated beforehand. Twenty dives were practiced over 4 weeks. We chose dive parameters consistent with common sport diving: maximal pressure of 4 atmosphere absolute and duration of 30 minutes. Auditory threshold and cochlear spontaneous activity were recorded at regular intervals. Furthermore, we recorded spontaneous cochlear activity in Heliox 400-m and 600-m dives to determine whether our conclusions hold for \"extreme\" diving.In the group with perforated eardrums, no variation of those parameters were recorded, even in extreme diving. Important variations were noticed in the other group.
We evaluate the outcome vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) in duplicated collecting systems compared to single collecting systems corrected using an extravesical detrusorrhaphy approach.We reviewed the records of 266 patients (422 ureters) treated for VUR using an extravesical approach between 1991 and 2001. Inclusion criteria were primary reflux in single (201 patients, 125 bilateral) or duplicated collecting systems (65, 31 bilateral) in patients not undergoing other concomitant surgery with at least 1 year of postoperative followup. The indication for surgical intervention was unresolved reflux (greater than 4 years) in more than 70% of patients. Postoperative evaluation included a voiding cystourethrogram at 3 months and 12 months if reflux was unresolved at 3 months. Also ultrasound was performed at 6 weeks or earlier if clinically indicated and 12 months.Group 1 (duplicated collecting systems) and group 2 (single collecting systems) were comparable for age, sex distribution and reflux grade distribution. Overall success rate at 3 and 12 months was 94.7% and 98.9% for group 1, and 95.1% and 98.5% for group 2, respectively. The difference in success rate at 3 and 12 months was not statistically significant (p>0.05). Of note in both groups postoperative VUR was contralateral in more than 40% of cases. Postoperative hydronephrosis (Society for Fetal Urology grade 1, 2 or 1 increment in grade from preoperative status) was observed in 5.3% and 7.3% of ureteral units at 6 weeks in groups 1 and 2, respectively (p>0.05). At 12 months less than 1% of ureteral units exhibited low grade residual hydronephrosis. No high grade postoperative hydronephrosis was observed in either group, and there were no intraoperative complications. Postoperative urinary retention occurred in 4.7% and 4% of patients in groups 1 and 2, respectively (p>0.05).
Radio frequency ablation (RFA) has been used as a minimally invasive alternative to nephrectomy for small renal tumors. Questions have arisen regarding the accuracy of cell viability determination on standard hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining. We investigated and compared the histological characteristics of RF ablated renal tissue using nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) and H&E staining.Ten porcine kidneys underwent laparoscopic RFA of the upper and lower poles using a 2 (8) or 3 cm (2) protocol with 2 cycles of 90 W, target temperature 105C and treatment time 5.5 minutes per cycle. Following tract ablation the kidneys were immediately harvested, gross lesion size was measured and tissue was processed for standard H&E and NADH staining.H&E staining of ablated tissue revealed a number of alterations in renal tubular histology. However, all of these findings were focal with areas of parenchyma that appeared well preserved. Corresponding areas on NADH processed sections showed the complete absence of staining, indicating the lack of cellular viability. There were no skip areas noted on NADH processed sections and treated portions demonstrated a well demarcated border of ablation.
To investigate the rates of Staphylococcus aureus carriage on the hands and in the noses of healthcare workers (HCWs) and the relatedness of S. aureus isolates found in the two sites.Point-prevalence study.Department for Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery at the University Hospital of Uppsala, Uppsala, Sweden.Samples were obtained from 133 individuals, 18 men and 115 women, using imprints of each hand on blood agar and a swab from the nose. S. aureus isolates were identified by standard methods and typed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis.S. aureus was found on the hands of 16.7% of the men and 9.6% of the women, and in the noses of 33.3% of the men and 17.4% of the women. The risk ratio for S. aureus carriage on the hands with nasal carriage was 7.4 (95% confidence interval, 2.7 to 20.2; P<.001). Among the 14 HCWs carrying S. aureus on their hands, strain likeness to the nasal isolate was documented for 7 (50%).
Lichen aureus is localized variant of persistent pigmented purpuric dermatitis that typically affects the legs and can be associated with delayed hypersensitivity reactions or vascular abnormalities. Plasma cell vulvitis (Zoon's vulvitis) is a rare condition that frequently contains hemosiderin deposits and is suspected to be a mucosal reaction pattern due to variety of insults, most often local irritation or trauma.A 50-year-old female with longstanding complaints of spotting, vulvar dryness, irritation, and dyspareunia presented with circumscribed, purpuric, erythematous vulvar patches. Past estrogen cream treatment evoked symptoms of discomfort. On biopsy, siderophages and extravasated red blood cells were found in conjunction with a lichenoid, lymphocyte and plasma cell infiltrate, and dilated dermal and intraepithelial vessels.